The exponential growth of documents in various languages throughout the web, along with the availability
of several editing and translation tools have made the cross-language plagiarism detection a challenging
issue. Regarding its high importance, the present study focuses on the task of cross-language text align-
ment also known as detailed analysis which works on the outputs of the source retrieval step of cross-
language plagiarism detection systems. The paper proposes a two-level matching approach with the
aim of considering both syntactic and semantic information to align plagiarism fragments from the source
and suspicious documents, accurately. At the first level, a vector space model which employs a multilingual
word embeddings based dictionary and a local weighting technique is used in order to extract a minimal
set of highly potential candidate fragment pairs rather than considering all possible pairs of fragments. This
step also contains a dynamic expansion technique to cover more candidate pairs aiming at improving the
system’s recall. It is followed by a more precise algorithm that examines the candidate pairs at the sentence
level using a graph-of-words representation of text. As a result, by modelling both the words and their rela-
tionships, an acceptable increase in the system’s precision which is the goal of the second level is also
observed. To identify evidence of plagiarism, i.e. potential cases of unauthorized text reuse, the algorithm
tries to find maximum cliques from the match graph of source and suspicious texts. With this two-level
investigation, the approach is capable to discriminate true plagiarism cases from the original text. The
experimental results on different datasets such as PAN-PC-11, PAN-PC-12, and SemEval-2017 show that
the proposed cross-language text alignment approach significantly outperforms the state-of-the-art mod-
els and can be fed into an expert system for further improvement of cross-language plagiarism detection.
The source codes are publicly available on GitHub1, for the purposes of reproducible research.
