The aim of this paper is to present an automatic plagiarism detection system to identify plagiarized passages of
documents. Our plagiarism detection system uses both syntactic and semantic similarities to identify plagiarized
passages. Our proposed method is a novel contribution because of its usage of part-of-speech tag n-grams
(POSNG) which are able to show syntactic similarities between source and suspicious sentences. Each source
document is indexed according to part-of-speech (POS) tag n-grams by a search engine in order to access rapidly
to sentences that are possible plagiarism candidates. Even though our plagiarism detection system obtains very
good results just using POS tag n-grams, its performance is further improved with the usage of semantic simi­
larities. The semantic relatedness between words is measured with the word embedding technique called
Word2Vec and the longest common subsequence approach is used to measure the semantic similarity between
source and suspicious sentences. There are several types of plagiarism such as verbatim, paraphrasing, source-
code, and cross-lingual. The high obfuscation paraphrasing is a type of plagiarism and its detection is one of
the most difficult plagiarism detection tasks. Our proposed method, which is based on POS tag n-grams, improves
the detection performance of the high obfuscation paraphrasing type and is the main contribution of this paper.
For this study, we use the large dataset called PAN-PC-11 which is created for the evaluation of automatic
plagiarism detection algorithms. Our experiments are conducted with the four types of paraphrasing in PAN-PC-
11 which are none, low, high and simulated obfuscation paraphrasing types. We defined various threshold and
parameter settings in order to assess the diversity of our results. We compared the performance of our method
with the plagiarism detectors in the 3rd International Competition on Plagiarism Detection (PAN11). According
to the experimental results, the proposed method achieved the best performance in terms of plagdet measure in
the types of high and low obfuscation paraphrasing and produced competitive results in the other paraphrasing
types.
