Machine learning techniques have become more attractive and widely used for medical image processing purposes. In particular, the diagnosis of neurodegenerative diseases has recently shown a potential field of application for these methods. Machine learning models offer a promising solution to this problem by enabling the extraction of meaningful features from medical images and predicting disease progression based on these features. Furthermore, these models can also aid in the development of new diagnostic criteria and treatment strategies. As such, the use of machine learning techniques in neurodegenerative disease diagnosis and management is an active and exciting area of research with the potential to revolutionize patient care.
Feature selection (FS) is an optimisation problem that reduces the dimension of the dataset and increases the performance of the machine learning algorithms and classification through the selection of the optimal subset features and elimination of the redundant features. However, the huge search space is an important challenge in the FS problem. Due to their satisfactory capabilities to handle high-dimension search spaces, meta-heuristic search algorithms have recently gained much attention and become popular in the FS problem. For these algorithms, choosing a proper fitness function plays an important role.
In this study, we propose a novel fitness function for a machine learning model used in medical image processing. The new fitness function is designed to improve the performance of the algorithm by optimizing the selection of features. We evaluate the performance of our approach by comparing it with other state-of-the-art meta-heuristic algorithms. The results demonstrate that our proposed fitness function outperforms other approaches, achieving higher accuracy rates and better feature selection. Our study highlights the potential of meta-heuristic search algorithms and the importance of choosing an appropriate fitness function in medical image processing for diagnosing neurodegenerative diseases.