Security provisioning has become a key issue in wireless multimedia networks due to their vital roles in supporting various services. For three kinds of improving back propagation (BP) algorithms: Variable Learning Rate (VLR) BP algorithm, Scaled Conjugate Gradient (SCG) BP algorithm, and Levenberg-Marquardt (LM) BP algorithm, these various algorithms' comparative study had been conducted on the GWHP system's NESSD. The optimal algorithm among them is determined and the GWHP system's NESSD as cases studies can be carried out based on the most suitable BP algorithm.Conventional security solutions have deficiencies in computing efficiency and addressing emerging security challenges. In addition, traditional upper-layer authentication ignores the protection of the physical layer, leading to severe privacy data leakage. In this paper, we envision a new deep learning (DL)-enabled security authentication scheme to overcome these issues, while implementing Blind Feature Learning (BFL) and Lightweight Physical Layer Authentication (LPLA). Specifically, an intelligent authentication method is developed by exploring neural networks at the data collection unit to learn the characteristics of data. Then we propose a holistic authentication scheme based on machine learning to identify malicious multimedia devices. AI is an area of computer science that studies the phenomenon of intelligence and that through it instruments can be built to support human intelligence, through mechanisms or software. The use of AI in education has been significant, especially in distance education as it can be worked with interactions between the teacher and student and directly in the learning environment with games, quiz, and others.Experimental analysis verifies that the proposed scheme can guarantee the privacy of wireless multimedia sensors and achieve lightweight authentication. Performance results indicate that artificial intelligence-enabled authentication scheme improves the overall security of multimedia networks.